CSM Docs (#1996)
unoplatform/uno.extensions: doc/Learn/Tutorials/Markup/HowTo-CustomMarkupProject-Theme.md

# Themes Overview

### Uno [Themes](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/themes-overview.html) Styles

[Fluent](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/fluent-getting-started.html) Controls Styles are the **Default Theme** for Uno Platform.
Uno Platform 3.0 and above supports control styles conforming to the Fluent design system.

[Uno.Themes](https://github.com/unoplatform/Uno.Themes) is the repository for add-ons NuGet packages that can be added to any new or existing Uno solution.

It contains two libraries

- [Material Overview](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/material-getting-started.html)

- [Cupertino Overview](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/cupertino-getting-started.html)

To help you style your application with a few lines of code to include and change:

> - Color system for both Light and Dark theme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Color system for both Light and Dark themes
```

- Styles for existing WinUI controls like Buttons, TextBox, etc.
- Change the Font of the Application

> ## Quick Start
> 
> In the two links above, you have a Getting Started for Material and Cupertino. 
> 
> But the difference between they are the references that can be included on the Solution.
> 
> You may notice that there are only minor differences in the XAML configuration in the link above and in this current tutorial.
> 
> Since we are using the Default Fluent Theme in the current project, we can choose to stay with it or add a different one.
> 
> Below we can see how to include and how to customize each of the two.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quick Start

In the two links above, you have a Getting Started for Material and Cupertino. 

But the difference between they are the references that can be included in the Solution.

You may notice that there are only minor differences in the XAML configuration in the link above and in this current tutorial.

Since we are using the Default Fluent Theme in the current project, we can choose to stay with it or add a different one.

Below we can see how to include and how to customize each of the two.
```

##  Material

Assuming that we are on the Fluent Theme and we want to change to the Material Theme, we just need to change some files (Or add some Nuget References) and it is done.

### Below is the list of files we need to modify

#### In the File Directory.Packages.props

> In the `Directory.Packages.props`, we need to add the `PackageReference` below or using the Manage NuGet Packages Manager and update the versions for the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Directory.Packages.props`, we need to add the `PackageReference` below or use the Manage NuGet Packages Manager and update the versions for the project.
```

```xml
    <PackageVersion Include="Uno.Material.WinUI.Markup" Version="0.0.0" />	
    <PackageVersion Include="Uno.Material.WinUI" Version="0.0.0" />	
    <PackageVersion Include="Uno.Dsp.Tasks" Version="0.0.0" />
```
--------------------------------------------------------------
If you prefer you can use the Manage NuGet Packages:
In the Solution Explorer panel, right-click on your app's App Code Library project (PROJECT_NAME.csproj)
and select Manage NuGet Packages...

**Install the following Packages**

- `Material.WinUI.Markup`, 
- `Uno.Material.WinUI` 
- `Uno.Dsp.Tasks`
--------------------------------------------------------------

#### In the File of Projects References

Add PackageReference to the PROJECT_NAME.csproj and the PROJECT_NAME.[Platform].csproj projects.

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Uno.Material.WinUI.Markup" />	
<PackageReference Include="Uno.Material.WinUI" />
<PackageReference Include="Uno.Dsp.Tasks" />
```

> #### In the File GlobalUsings.cs
> ```csharp
> global using Uno.Material;
> ```
> 
> **And it is that, we now have the Material Style in your application.**
> 
> #### In the File AppResources.cs
> 
> But in case we want some customization, we need to override the Colors and the Fonts.
> 
> First we need to create a folder named `Styles` in the shared class library. Then Create a new class file to override the ColorPalette, we named `ColorPaletteOverride.cs` and add the content below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### In the File GlobalUsings.cs
```csharp
global using Uno.Material;
```

**And it is that we now have the Material Style in your application.**

#### In the File AppResources.cs

But in case we want some customization, we need to override the Colors and the Fonts.

First, we need to create a folder named `Styles` in the shared class library. Then Create a new class file to override the ColorPalette, which we named `ColorPaletteOverride.cs`, and add the content below.
```

```csharp
namespace MySampleToolkitProject.Styles;

public sealed partial class ColorPaletteOverride : ResourceDictionary
{
	public ColorPaletteOverride()
	{
		this.Build(r => r
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Primary.Default.Key, "#5946D2", "#2F81D8")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnPrimary.Default.Key, "#FFFFFF", "#FFFFFF")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Secondary.Default.Key, "#67E5AD", "#FEB839")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnSecondary.Default.Key, "#000000", "#000000")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key, "#F4F4F4", "#000000")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnBackground.Default.Key, "#000000", "#FFFFFF")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Surface.Default.Key, "#FFFFFF", "#0F0F0F")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnSurface.Default.Key, "#000000", "#FFFFFF")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Error.Default.Key, "#F85977", "#B2213C")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnError.Default.Key, "#FFFFFF", "#FFFFFF"));
	}
}
```

> Then, create a new class file to override the Fonts, we named as `MaterialFontsOverride.cs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a new class file to override the Fonts, which we named as `MaterialFontsOverride.cs`.
```

```csharp
namespace MySampleToolkitProject.Styles;

public sealed class MaterialFontsOverride : ResourceDictionary
{
	public MaterialFontsOverride()
	{
		this.Build(r => r
			.Add<FontFamily>("MaterialLightFontFamily", "ms-appx:///Uno.Fonts.Roboto/Fonts/Material/Roboto-Light.ttf#Roboto")
			.Add<FontFamily>("MaterialMediumFontFamily", "ms-appx:///Uno.Fonts.Roboto/Fonts/Material/Roboto-Medium.ttf#Roboto")
			.Add<FontFamily>("MaterialRegularFontFamily", "ms-appx:///Uno.Fonts.Roboto/Fonts/Material/Roboto-Regular.ttf#Roboto"));
	}
}

```

> And we can use this tutorial if we want to [Use the DSP Tooling in Uno.Material](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/material-dsp.html).
> In this tutorial, we can get exported file, and rename as the file `ColorPaletteOverride.zip` and add to the `Style` folder.
> 
> And then add the references to the `AppResources.cs`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And we can use this tutorial if we want to [Use the DSP Tooling in Uno.Material](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/material-dsp.html).
In this tutorial, we can get the exported file, rename it as the file `ColorPaletteOverride.zip`, and add it to the `Style` folder.

And then add the references to the `AppResources.cs`
```

```csharp
// Load Uno.UI.Toolkit and Material Resources
this.Build(r => r.Merged(
	new  MaterialTheme(
		new Styles.ColorPaletteOverride(),
		new Styles.MaterialFontsOverride())));
````

##### For a test, change the ColorPaletteOverride and run the project.

We change the `Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key` and we will be able to check the change if we customize the `Background` on the `Page`.

```csharp
//From
//.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key, "#F4F4F4", "#000000")
//To
.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key, "#A1B2C3", "#000000")
```

> For use the color from the theme open the MainPage.cs and change the background of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the color from the theme open the MainPage.cs and change the background of the page.
```

```csharp
public MainPage()
	{
		this
            //Remove the ApplicationPageBackgroundThemeBrush Background
            //.Background(ThemeResource.Get<Brush>("ApplicationPageBackgroundThemeBrush"))

            //Use the Direct the Uno.Themes.Markup.Theme.Brushes
            //.Background(Theme.Brushes.Background.Default)

            //Or use the ResourceKeyDefinition to have the same result
            .Background(ThemeResource.Get<Brush>("BackgroundBrush"))
```

> You can always read the Material documentation and learning how the [Baseline color scheme](https://m3.material.io/styles/color/the-color-system/tokens) works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can always read the Material documentation and learn how the [Baseline color scheme](https://m3.material.io/styles/color/the-color-system/tokens) works.
```

## Cupertino

C# Markup does not support Cupertino at the moment.

## Quick Start

We are able to change from Dark Mode and Light Mode directly in the application.
We can use the `ColorPaletteOverride` for both Dark and Light Mode.

To do this, we can create a simple control toggle button and switch between modes.

- In the Shared Project open the file *MainPage.cs* and change the content to show a `ToggleButton`.

```csharp
new Grid().RowDefinitions<Grid>("*, *")
	.Children(
		new NavigationBar()
			.Grid(column: 0)
			.HorizontalAlignment(HorizontalAlignment.Left)
			.Content("Title Main Page"),
		new ToggleButton()
			.Grid(column: 0)
			.Content("Toggle Theme")
			.HorizontalAlignment(HorizontalAlignment.Right)
			.Assign(out var toggle)
	),
```

> - After that we need to add a Click EventHandler to Toggle the Theme. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After that, we need to add a Click EventHandler to Toggle the Theme. 
```

{
	if (Application.Current is App app)
	{
		app.AppTheme?.SetTheme(false);
	}
};
```

- To change the theme, we need to have access to the `Window`.
- We will create a new Class Named `AppTheme.cs` and add the content below.
- And doing this, we can get benefit from the Toolkit helper [SystemThemeHelper](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/features/working-with-themes.html?tabs=windows).

```csharp
namespace MySampleToolkitProject;
public class AppTheme
{
	private readonly Window _window;
	public AppTheme(Window window)
	{
		_window = window;
	}

    public void SetTheme(bool darkMode)
	{
			SystemThemeHelper.SetRootTheme(_window.Content.XamlRoot, darkMode);
	}
}

```
And for this educational purpose, we can update `App.cs` and include a public class `AppTheme` so that it can be used in our control, to update the theme.

```csharp
namespace MySampleToolkitProject;

public class App : Application
{
	public AppTheme? AppTheme;
	protected Window? MainWindow { get; private set; }

	protected override void OnLaunched(LaunchActivatedEventArgs args)
	{
#if NET6_0_OR_GREATER && WINDOWS && !HAS_UNO
		MainWindow = new Window();
#else
		MainWindow = Microsoft.UI.Xaml.Window.Current;
#endif

> 		// Do not repeat app initialization when the Window already has content,
> 		// just ensure that the window is active
> 		if (MainWindow.Content is not Frame rootFrame)
> 		{
> 			// Create a Frame to act as the navigation context and navigate to the first page
> 			rootFrame = new Frame();
> 
> 			// Place the frame in the current Window
> 			MainWindow.Content = rootFrame;
> 
> 			rootFrame.NavigationFailed += OnNavigationFailed;
> 		}
> 
> 		if (rootFrame.Content == null)
> 		{
> 			// When the navigation stack isn't restored navigate to the first page,
> 			// configuring the new page by passing required information as a navigation
> 			// parameter
> 			rootFrame.Navigate(typeof(MainPage), args.Arguments);
> 		}
> 
> 		AppTheme = new AppTheme(MainWindow);
> 
> 		// Ensure the current window is active
> 		MainWindow.Activate();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// Do not repeat app initialization when the Window already has content,
		// just ensure that the window is active
		if (MainWindow.Content is not Frame rootFrame)
		{
			// Create a Frame to act as the navigation context and navigate to the first page
			rootFrame = new Frame();

			// Place the frame in the current Window
			MainWindow.Content = rootFrame;

			rootFrame.NavigationFailed += OnNavigationFailed;
		}

		if (rootFrame.Content == null)
		{
			// When the navigation stack isn't restored navigate to the first page,
			// configuring the new page by passing the required information as a navigation
			// parameter
			rootFrame.Navigate(typeof(MainPage), args.Arguments);
		}

		AppTheme = new AppTheme(MainWindow);

		// Ensure the current window is active
		MainWindow.Activate();
```

	}

> 	/// <summary>
> 	/// Invoked when Navigation to a certain page fails
> 	/// </summary>
> 	/// <param name="sender">The Frame which failed navigation</param>
> 	/// <param name="e">Details about the navigation failure</param>
> 	void OnNavigationFailed(object sender, NavigationFailedEventArgs e)
> 	{
> 		throw new InvalidOperationException($"Failed to load {e.SourcePageType.FullName}: {e.Exception}");
> 	}
> }
> ```
> 
> And it is that, now we can change the `RequestedTheme` and use the Dark and Light Mode.
> 
> ## Try it yourself
> 
> Now try to change your `MainPage` to have different layout and test other attributes and elements.
> 
> ## Next Steps
> 
> - [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to change Visual States and User Controls](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectVisualStates)
> - [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to use Toolkit](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectToolkit)
> - [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to use MVUX](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectMVUX)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	/// <summary>
	/// Invoked when Navigation to a certain page fails
	/// </summary>
	/// <param name="sender">The Frame which failed navigation</param>
	/// <param name="e">Details about the navigation failure</param>
	void OnNavigationFailed(object sender, NavigationFailedEventArgs e)
	{
		throw new InvalidOperationException($"Failed to load {e.SourcePageType.FullName}: {e.Exception}");
	}
}
```

And it is that, now we can change the `RequestedTheme` and use the Dark and Light Mode.

## Try it yourself

Now try to change your `MainPage` to have a different layout and test other attributes and elements.

## Next Steps

- [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to change Visual States and User Controls](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectVisualStates)
- [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to use Toolkit](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectToolkit)
- [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to use MVUX](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectMVUX)
```

---
uid: Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectTheme
---

# C# Markup project setup

In this tutorial you'll learn how to set up an Uno Platform project to use C# Markup to change the Theme. 

1. For this tutorial we will continue to use the Sample created on the [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to use Toolkit](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectToolkit) tutorial and changed on the [Custom your own C# Markup - Learn how to change Visual States and User Controls](xref:Learn.Tutorials.HowToCustomMarkupProjectVisualStates).

# Themes Overview

### Uno [Themes](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/themes-overview.html) Styles

[Fluent](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/fluent-getting-started.html) Controls Styles are the **Default Theme** for Uno Platform.
Uno Platform 3.0 and above supports control styles conforming to the Fluent design system.

[Uno.Themes](https://github.com/unoplatform/Uno.Themes) is the repository for add-ons NuGet packages that can be added to any new or existing Uno solution.

It contains two libraries

> - [Material Overview](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/material-getting-started.html)

Reviewer 2: Let's use xrefs, if possible.

> - [Cupertino Overview](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/cupertino-getting-started.html)

Reviewer 2: xrefs if possible.

> That help you style your application with a few lines of code include and change:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to help you style your application with a few lines of code to include and change:
```

- Color system for both Light and Dark theme
- Styles for existing WinUI controls like Buttons, TextBox, etc.
- Change the Font of the Application

## Quick Start

> In the two link above you have a Getting Started for Material and Cupertino. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the two links above, you have a Getting Started for Material and Cupertino. 
```

> But the difference between they are the references that can be included on the Soliction.

Reviewer 2: What's `Soliction`?

You may notice that there are only minor differences in the XAML configuration in the link above and in this current tutorial.

Since we are using the Default Fluent Theme in the current project, we can choose to stay with it or add a different one.

Below we can see how to include and how to customize each of the two.

##  Material

Assuming that we are on the Fluent Theme and we want to change to the Material Theme, we just need to change some files (Or add some Nuget References) and it is done.

### Below is the list of files we need to modify

#### In the File Directory.Packages.props

> In the Directory.Packages.props, we need to add the PackageReference bellow or using the Manage NuGet Packages and update the Versions for the Current version of the project or last version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `Directory.Packages.props`, we need to add the `PackageReference` below or using the NuGet Packages manager and update the versions for the project.
```

```xml
    <PackageVersion Include="Uno.Material.WinUI.Markup" Version="0.0.0" />	
    <PackageVersion Include="Uno.Material.WinUI" Version="0.0.0" />	
    <PackageVersion Include="Uno.Dsp.Tasks" Version="0.0.0" />
```
--------------------------------------------------------------

> If you prefere you can use the Manage NuGet Packages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you prefer you can use the Manage NuGet Packages:
```

> In the Solution Explorer panel,
> right-click on your app's App Code Library project (PROJECT_NAME.csproj)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Solution Explorer panel, right-click on your app's App Code Library project (PROJECT_NAME.csproj)
```

and select Manage NuGet Packages...

**Install the following Packages**

- `Material.WinUI.Markup`, 
- `Uno.Material.WinUI` 
- `Uno.Dsp.Tasks`
--------------------------------------------------------------

#### In the File of Projects References

Add PackageReference to the PROJECT_NAME.csproj and the PROJECT_NAME.[Platform].csproj projects.

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Uno.Material.WinUI.Markup" />	
<PackageReference Include="Uno.Material.WinUI" />
<PackageReference Include="Uno.Dsp.Tasks" />
```

#### In the File GlobalUsings.cs
```csharp
global using Uno.Material;
```

> **And it is that, we now have the Material Style on ours application.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**And it is that, we now have the Material Style in your application.**
```

#### In the File AppResources.cs

> But in case we want some customization, we need to Overrides the Colors and the Fonts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But in case we want some customization, we need to override the Colors and the Fonts.
```

> First we need to create a Folder named Styles in the Shared Project.
> Than Create a new class file to Override the ColorPallete, we named as ColorPaletteOverride.cs and add the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First we need to create a folder named `Styles` in the shared class library. Then Create a new class file to override the ColorPalette, we named `ColorPaletteOverride.cs` and add the content below.
```

```csharp
namespace MySampleToolkitProject.Styles;

public sealed partial class ColorPaletteOverride : ResourceDictionary
{
	public ColorPaletteOverride()
	{
		this.Build(r => r
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Primary.Default.Key, "#5946D2", "#2F81D8")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnPrimary.Default.Key, "#FFFFFF", "#FFFFFF")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Secondary.Default.Key, "#67E5AD", "#FEB839")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnSecondary.Default.Key, "#000000", "#000000")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key, "#F4F4F4", "#000000")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnBackground.Default.Key, "#000000", "#FFFFFF")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Surface.Default.Key, "#FFFFFF", "#0F0F0F")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnSurface.Default.Key, "#000000", "#FFFFFF")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Error.Default.Key, "#F85977", "#B2213C")
			.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.OnError.Default.Key, "#FFFFFF", "#FFFFFF"));
	}
}
```

> Than Create a new class file to Override the Fonts, we named as MaterialFontsOverride.cs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, create a new class file to override the Fonts, we named as `MaterialFontsOverride.cs`.
```

```csharp
namespace MySampleToolkitProject.Styles;

public sealed class MaterialFontsOverride : ResourceDictionary
{
	public MaterialFontsOverride()
	{
		this.Build(r => r
			.Add<FontFamily>("MaterialLightFontFamily", "ms-appx:///Uno.Fonts.Roboto/Fonts/Material/Roboto-Light.ttf#Roboto")
			.Add<FontFamily>("MaterialMediumFontFamily", "ms-appx:///Uno.Fonts.Roboto/Fonts/Material/Roboto-Medium.ttf#Roboto")
			.Add<FontFamily>("MaterialRegularFontFamily", "ms-appx:///Uno.Fonts.Roboto/Fonts/Material/Roboto-Regular.ttf#Roboto"));
	}
}

```

And we can use this tutorial if we want to [Use the DSP Tooling in Uno.Material](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.themes/doc/material-dsp.html).

> In this tutorial, we can get exported file, and rename as the file ColorPaletteOverride.zip and add to the Style folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we can get exported file, and rename as the file `ColorPaletteOverride.zip` and add to the `Style` folder.
```

> And than add the references to the AppResources.cs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And then add the references to the `AppResources.cs`
```

```csharp
// Load Uno.UI.Toolkit and Material Resources
this.Build(r => r.Merged(
	new  MaterialTheme(
		new Styles.ColorPaletteOverride(),
		new Styles.MaterialFontsOverride())));
````

##### For a test, change the ColorPaletteOverride and run the project.

> We change the Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key and will be able to check the change if we customize the Background on the Page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We change the `Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key` and we will be able to check the change if we customize the `Background` on the `Page`.
```

```csharp
//From
//.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key, "#F4F4F4", "#000000")
//To
.Add<Color>(Theme.Colors.Background.Default.Key, "#A1B2C3", "#000000")
```

For use the color from the theme open the MainPage.cs and change the background of the page.

```csharp
public MainPage()
	{
		this
            //Remove the ApplicationPageBackgroundThemeBrush Background
            //.Background(ThemeResource.Get<Brush>("ApplicationPageBackgroundThemeBrush"))

            //Use the Direct the Uno.Themes.Markup.Theme.Brushes
            //.Background(Theme.Brushes.Background.Default)

            //Or use the ResourceKeyDefinition to have the same result
            .Background(ThemeResource.Get<Brush>("BackgroundBrush"))
```

> You always can back on the Material documentation and learning how the [Baseline color scheme](https://m3.material.io/styles/color/the-color-system/tokens) works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can always read the Material documentation and learning how the [Baseline color scheme](https://m3.material.io/styles/color/the-color-system/tokens) works.
```

## Cupertino

> We do not suport Cupertino at the moment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C# Markup does not support Cupertino at the moment.
```

## Quick Start

> We are able to change from Dark Mode and Light Mode direct on the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are able to change from Dark Mode and Light Mode directly in the application.
```

> So we can use the ColorPaletteOverride as both, Dark and Light Mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the `ColorPaletteOverride` for both Dark and Light Mode.
```

To do this, we can create a simple control toggle button and switch between modes.

> - In the Shared Project open the file *MainPage.cs* and change the content to have the ToggleButton.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In the Shared Project open the file *MainPage.cs* and change the content to show a `ToggleButton`.
```

```csharp
new Grid().RowDefinitions<Grid>("*, *")
	.Children(
		new NavigationBar()
			.Grid(column: 0)
			.HorizontalAlignment(HorizontalAlignment.Left)
			.Content("Title Main Page"),
		new ToggleButton()
			.Grid(column: 0)
			.Content("Toggle Theme")
			.HorizontalAlignment(HorizontalAlignment.Right)
			.Assign(out var toggle)
	),
```

- After that we need to add a Click EventHandler to Toggle the Theme. 

```csharp
toggle.Checked += (s, e) =>
{
	if (Application.Current is App app)
	{
		app.AppTheme?.SetTheme(true);
	}
};
toggle.Unchecked += (s, e) =>
{
	if (Application.Current is App app)
	{
		app.AppTheme?.SetTheme(false);
	}
};
```

> - But to change the theme, we need to have access to the Window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To change the theme, we need to have access to the `Window`.
```

> - So we will create a new Class Named AppTheme.cs and add this content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We will create a new Class Named `AppTheme.cs` and add the content below.
```

- And doing this, we can get benefit from the Toolkit helper [SystemThemeHelper](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/features/working-with-themes.html?tabs=windows).

```csharp
namespace MySampleToolkitProject;
public class AppTheme
{
	private readonly Window _window;
	public AppTheme(Window window)
	{
		_window = window;
	}

    public void SetTheme(bool darkMode)
	{
			SystemThemeHelper.SetRootTheme(_window.Content.XamlRoot, darkMode);
	}
}

```

> And for this pedagogical purpose, we can update App.cs and include a public class AppTheme so that it can be used in our control, to update the theme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And for this educational purpose, we can update `App.cs` and include a public class `AppTheme` so that it can be used in our control, to update the theme.
```

		// just ensure that the window is active
		if (MainWindow.Content is not Frame rootFrame)
		{
			// Create a Frame to act as the navigation context and navigate to the first page
			rootFrame = new Frame();

			// Place the frame in the current Window
			MainWindow.Content = rootFrame;

			rootFrame.NavigationFailed += OnNavigationFailed;
		}

		if (rootFrame.Content == null)
		{
			// When the navigation stack isn't restored navigate to the first page,
			// configuring the new page by passing required information as a navigation
			// parameter
			rootFrame.Navigate(typeof(MainPage), args.Arguments);
		}

		AppTheme = new AppTheme(MainWindow);

		// Ensure the current window is active
		MainWindow.Activate();
	}

	/// <summary>
	/// Invoked when Navigation to a certain page fails
	/// </summary>
	/// <param name="sender">The Frame which failed navigation</param>
	/// <param name="e">Details about the navigation failure</param>
	void OnNavigationFailed(object sender, NavigationFailedEventArgs e)
	{
		throw new InvalidOperationException($"Failed to load {e.SourcePageType.FullName}: {e.Exception}");
	}
}
```

> And it is that, now we can change the RequestedTheme and use the Dark and Light Mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And it is that, now we can change the `RequestedTheme` and use the Dark and Light Mode.
```

## Try it yourself

> Now try to change your MainPage to have different layout and test other attributes and elements..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now try to change your `MainPage` to have different layout and test other attributes and elements.
```
